# Quantum Inspired Optimization Toolkit Project - Contribution Guidelines

## Introduction

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the Quantum Inspired
Optimization Toolkit project! We're thrilled to welcome you on board. This
project is deeply rooted in complex mathematical concepts, implemented in C++,
and we greatly value your expertise and dedication.

## Getting Started

1. Familiarize Yourself with the Project

Before making your first contribution, please familiarize yourself with the
project. Understand what the project is about, what its objectives are, and how
it works. This project requires a strong understanding of quantum-inspired
algorithms, mathematical optimization, and C++ programming.

2. Understand the Code of Conduct

We maintain a standard Code of Conduct that all contributors must adhere to.
Make sure you read and understand this before contributing. A respectful and
inclusive environment is critical to the project's success.

## How to Contribute

1. Fork the Repository

To start contributing, fork the repository and then clone it to your local
machine. This will give you a copy of the entire codebase on your system,
allowing you to make changes.

2. Set Up the Development Environment

Ensure your local setup is working perfectly and you can run the project without
any issues. If you encounter any problems, reach out to the community for help.

3. Pick an Issue

Check out the open issues in the repository. Select one that you are interested
in and fits your skills. We encourage newcomers to start with smaller, simpler
issues and gradually move on to more complex ones as they get more comfortable.

4. Write Your Code

After selecting an issue, start writing your code. Please try and ensure you
follow our coding standards and conventions. They help maintain the code's
consistency and readability.

Write code in modern, idiomatic C++ and adhere to the C++ Core Guidelines
Include detailed comments with your code when the logic isn't immediately
apparent. Strive for clean, efficient, and optimized code. Avoid unnecessary
complexity or over-optimization.

5. Testing

Write tests for your code to verify that it behaves as expected. Your tests
should cover edge cases and potential errors. This is necessary to actually
contribute to the project as we do not currently allow ned code in with under
90% test coverage.

6. Documentation

Given the mathematical complexity of this project, robust documentation is
critical. Include thorough explanations of your code and the mathematical
concepts behind it when necessary. Remember that others in the community may not
have the same level of understanding or expertise as you.

## Submitting Your Contribution

1. Commit Your Changes

Before committing your changes, ensure that your code builds correctly and all
tests pass. Your commit message should be descriptive and clarify the purpose of
the commit.

2. Push to Your Fork

Push your commits to your fork.

3. Open a Pull Request

From your forked repository, open a pull request against the main project.
Include a descriptive title and detailed description of your changes. Link any
related issues.

4. Quality gate check

We have several automated quality checks. Currently we do not allow any code
change without 90% code coverage. We also have a static code analysis tool that
checks for any code quality issues. The pull request will automatically run
these checks and it won't be possible to contribute until these checks pass.

5. Code Review

Maintainers or project members will review your code. They may suggest changes
or improvements. This is a normal part of the process, and these reviews ensure
the quality and consistency of the code base.

6. Incorporate Feedback

Incorporate any feedback or changes requested during the code review. Once all
feedback has been addressed, the maintainers will merge your pull request.

## Conclusion

We hope these guidelines help you navigate your contribution journey. Don't
hesitate to ask for help when you need it. And most importantly, have fun!

Thank you for contributing to the Quantum Inspired Optimization Toolkit project!
